docs/instructions/implementation_pattern.md, before:

## Implementation patterns for Azure Functions (Python)

This document describes the recommended implementation patterns for adding new enrichment endpoints to this Azure Functions app. It is intended for human contributors and for automated agents (AI) that generate code for the repository.

### Purpose
- Provide a concise, repeatable pattern for implementing new functions.
- Ensure consistency across modules: naming, inputs/outputs, error handling, tests, and deployment.

### Where to add code
- Function logic modules live under `functions/`.
- HTTP trigger routing lives in `function_app.py`.
- Tests go in `tests/` with pytest; use markers `mock` for unit tests and `live` for tests that call real APIs.

### Module pattern (recommended)
- File name: `snake_case`, e.g. `functions/my_service.py`.
- Module purpose: implement a cohesive capability (single API provider or closely related set of operations).
- Exports:
  - One or more small business-logic functions (pure or thin I/O adapters).
  - A clear entrypoint with a predictable signature, e.g. `def handle_request(payload: dict) -> dict`.

Example module skeleton:

```python
from typing import Dict, Any

def handle_request(payload: Dict[str, Any]) -> Dict[str, Any]:
    """Handle a parsed request payload and return a JSON-serializable dict.

    Inputs
    - payload: parsed JSON body or a dict of parameters.

    Outputs
    - dict with keys: 'status', 'result' or 'error'
    """
    if "value" not in payload:
        raise ValueError("missing 'value' parameter")

    # Business logic
    result = {"echo": payload["value"]}

    return {"status": "ok", "result": result}
```

### How `function_app.py` should call modules
- Parse request body and/or query params into a plain dict.
- Call the module entrypoint (e.g., `handle_request`).
- Map exceptions to HTTP responses:
  - `ValueError` or invalid input -> HTTP 400
  - Authentication / missing API key -> HTTP 401/403 as appropriate
  - Any other unexpected errors -> HTTP 500
- Return the module's result as JSON.

### Inputs and outputs (contract)
- Inputs: prefer a single dict payload representing parsed JSON or parameters. This reduces boilerplate and makes testing easier.
- Outputs: JSON-serializable dict with either a `result` (on success) or an `error` object, and an explicit `status` string.

Minimal response shape examples:

Success
```json
{ "status": "ok", "result": { ... } }
```

Error
```json
{ "status": "error", "error": { "msg": "explanation" } }
```

### Error handling
- Validate inputs early and raise `ValueError` for client errors.
- Raise specific exceptions for authentication or external API errors when helpful.
- Keep `function_app.py` responsible for HTTP mapping and logging.

### Secrets and configuration
- Do not hardcode API keys. Read them from environment variables. For local development use `local.settings.json` (ignored by git) or `func settings add`.
- Common env var names in this project: `ABUSEIPDB_API_KEY`, `ALIENVAULT_API_KEY`.

### Testing
- Add unit tests under `tests/` named `test_<module>.py`.
- Mock external HTTP calls for unit tests (use `pytest-mock` or `responses`/`requests-mock`).
- Mark live integration tests with `@pytest.mark.live` and exclude them from default CI runs.
- Example test cases to include:
  - happy path
  - missing required parameter
  - empty list inputs
  - simulated external API error (HTTP 429/500)

### Linting and types
- Follow repo style: `ruff` and `mypy` are used in this project.
- Add type hints for public functions and maintain readable docstrings.

### Adding dependencies
- Update `requirements.txt` when adding runtime dependencies.
- Update `requirements-dev.txt` for test/dev tools if needed.

### Deployment
- Use `./deploy_staging.sh` to produce a zip for Azure Function deployment. Ensure secrets are provided in Azure Application Settings.

### Checklist before PR
- Tests added and passing locally for changed modules.
- `ruff` pass locally.
- `requirements.txt` updated if necessary.
- README updated if adding new user-visible endpoints.

### AI-specific instructions (what to provide when asking an AI to add a function)
When prompting an AI to implement a new function, include:
- target module path and file name (e.g., `functions/my_service.py`)
- the route or endpoint to add in `function_app.py` (e.g., `/api/my_service/action`)
- example input JSON and query param schema
- expected output JSON shape and error semantics
- any external API endpoints and the name of the env var for the API key
- whether to add unit tests (and examples of mocked responses)

---

Commit message:

feat(urlscan): add result retrieval and search endpoints
- Add get_result() function to retrieve scan results by UUID
- Add search_scans() function to search scans with ElasticSearch syntax
- Add /api/urlscan/result endpoint for result retrieval
- Add /api/urlscan/search endpoint for searching scans
- Add comprehensive unit tests (43 total, all passing)
- Add endpoint tests for new routes (13 new tests)
- Add live integration tests (6 new tests)
- Update implementation documentation with full API coverage
- Update development process and testing documentation
- All 122 tests passing, ruff and mypy checks passing

Breaking changes: None
Closes: Phase 4 implementation of URLScan.io integration

docs/instructions/implementation_pattern.md, after:

## Implementation patterns for Azure Functions (Python)

This document describes the recommended implementation patterns for adding new enrichment endpoints to this Azure Functions app. It is intended for human contributors and for automated agents (AI) that generate code for the repository.

### Purpose
- Provide a concise, repeatable pattern for implementing new functions.
- Ensure consistency across modules: naming, inputs/outputs, error handling, tests, and deployment.

### Where to add code
- Function logic modules live under `functions/`.
- HTTP trigger routing lives in `function_app.py`.
- Tests go in `tests/` with pytest; use markers `mock` for unit tests and `live` for tests that call real APIs.

### Module pattern (recommended)
- File name: `snake_case`, e.g. `functions/my_service.py`.
- Module purpose: implement a cohesive capability (single API provider or closely related set of operations).
- Exports:
  - One or more small business-logic functions (pure or thin I/O adapters).
  - A clear entrypoint with a predictable signature, e.g. `def handle_request(payload: dict) -> dict`.

Example module skeleton:

```python
from typing import Dict, Any

def handle_request(payload: Dict[str, Any]) -> Dict[str, Any]:
    """Handle a parsed request payload and return a JSON-serializable dict.

    Inputs
    - payload: parsed JSON body or a dict of parameters.

    Outputs
    - dict with keys: 'status', 'result' or 'error'
    """
    if "value" not in payload:
        raise ValueError("missing 'value' parameter")

    # Business logic
    result = {"echo": payload["value"]}

    return {"status": "ok", "result": result}
```

### How `function_app.py` should call modules
- Parse request body and/or query params into a plain dict.
- Call the module entrypoint (e.g., `handle_request`).
- Map exceptions to HTTP responses:
  - `ValueError` or invalid input -> HTTP 400
  - Authentication / missing API key -> HTTP 401/403 as appropriate
  - Any other unexpected errors -> HTTP 500
- Return the module's result as JSON.

### Inputs and outputs (contract)
- Inputs: prefer a single dict payload representing parsed JSON or parameters. This reduces boilerplate and makes testing easier.
- Outputs: JSON-serializable dict with either a `result` (on success) or an `error` object, and an explicit `status` string.

Minimal response shape examples:

Success
```json
{ "status": "ok", "result": { ... } }
```

Error
```json
{ "status": "error", "error": { "msg": "explanation" } }
```

### Error handling
- Validate inputs early and raise `ValueError` for client errors.
- Raise specific exceptions for authentication or external API errors when helpful.
- Keep `function_app.py` responsible for HTTP mapping and logging.

### Secrets and configuration
- Do not hardcode API keys. Read them from environment variables.
- For local development:
  - Non-secret environment variables are stored in `local.settings.json` (ignored by git).
  - **Secret environment variables (API keys, tokens, etc.) must be added using `func settings add`** to keep them out of version control.
  - Example: `func settings add ABUSEIPDB_API_KEY "your-api-key-here"`
- Common env var names in this project: `ABUSEIPDB_API_KEY`, `ALIENVAULT_API_KEY`, `URLSCAN_API_KEY`.

### Virtual environment
- This project uses a Python virtual environment for dependency isolation.
- **Always ensure the virtual environment is activated** before running Python commands, pip installations, or other commands that interact with Python packages.
- To activate the virtual environment:
  - In the dev container or local setup, use the appropriate activation command (e.g., `source .venv/bin/activate` or the path specified in your Azure Functions configuration).
  - If using VS Code with Azure Functions extension, the extension typically handles this automatically via the `${config:azureFunctions.pythonVenv}` setting.
- When running commands manually in the terminal, verify the virtual environment is active (look for the environment name in your shell prompt or check `which python`).

### Testing
- Add unit tests under `tests/` named `test_<module>.py`.
- Mock external HTTP calls for unit tests (use `pytest-mock` or `responses`/`requests-mock`).
- Mark live integration tests with `@pytest.mark.live` and exclude them from default CI runs.
- Example test cases to include:
  - happy path
  - missing required parameter
  - empty list inputs
  - simulated external API error (HTTP 429/500)

### Linting and types
- Follow repo style: `ruff` and `mypy` are used in this project.
- Add type hints for public functions and maintain readable docstrings.

### Adding dependencies
- Update `requirements.txt` when adding runtime dependencies.
- Update `requirements-dev.txt` for test/dev tools if needed.

### Deployment
- Use `./deploy_staging.sh` to produce a zip for Azure Function deployment. Ensure secrets are provided in Azure Application Settings.

### Checklist before PR
- Tests added and passing locally for changed modules.
- `ruff` pass locally.
- `requirements.txt` updated if necessary.
- README updated if adding new user-visible endpoints.

### AI-specific instructions (what to provide when asking an AI to add a function)
When prompting an AI to implement a new function, include:
- target module path and file name (e.g., `functions/my_service.py`)
- the route or endpoint to add in `function_app.py` (e.g., `/api/my_service/action`)
- example input JSON and query param schema
- expected output JSON shape and error semantics
- any external API endpoints and the name of the env var for the API key
- whether to add unit tests (and examples of mocked responses)

---
